These books provide the base of lore scattered throughout the world of Corfael and the Library. They describe something that was lost and not to be recovered. These Books describe both future, past and current events. The Lady Roechelle exists beyond these events and should be considered outside of them alongside the Nolithom and Corvantus. They were once mortal and know the true secret of the world of Corfael.

Known Books of the Volidean Legacy in Chronological Order

~0000-1000 Itaphes and Stentams
~1000-2590 Thalanian Proverbs
~2700-3098 Greysand Triumphs
~3125-4505 Eniglamon
~4505-4700 Volumes of Tesarius
Lostmau Epic
Garden of Forking Paths
Talmalon
Theuspromo
Rise of Gorbal
Construction of The Tower of Gorbal
Nolithom
Statue in the Desert
Lost Amongst the Grass
Ritual of the Trial
The World on Fire of the Setting Sun
Darker Tones of a Snake

0000-1000
Itaphes and Stentams

The being of power Itaphes forged all that is of this world from light and fire while his foil Stentams formed all that is spirit with all that remained in opposition of light and fire, ash and shadow. These two beings fought tirelessly against one another for thousands of years forming spheres of coalesced power and perfection. These objects of embodied aspects of the extremity of light as well as dark. The reason behind their conflict arises not of a bearing they hold against each other, but rather a force of inevitability like a falling stone. One may flee the other, but , a unification of their twin might is inevitable and leaves behind remnants of their orbits. These remnants are recorded as taking the form of cykiric objects. From these cykirics all that we know of the spirit and matter have come forth and will be. These beings however much they contend against one another are not be thought as being in ever constant combat with one another. There are times where they sit at a distance, maneuvering opposite on another. This period of separation creates a being of both wills that is composed of both of their key elements. This being is known as Thalin, who only is capable of existing between the two primal forces. Thalin embodies the hope, peace and prosperity that come from insight into the polar beings of creation. Thalin's existence is temporary and fleeting, but is similarly eternal through a constant rebirth through the movements and conflicts of Itaphes and Stentams.

~1000-2590
Thalanian Proverbs (Lost)
A series of five small books relating the virtues of conduct in life among Volidean peoples. In several of the parables interactions with a being that appears to match the description of the Nolithom are recorded.

~2700-3098
Greysand Triumphs
A recounting of the Volidean people's encounter with the corruption known as Greysand and their hard fought victory to destroy the Greysand Gate.

~3125-4505
Eniglamon
The years spent by the Volidean people as refugees from their conflict with Greysand after a large majority of their people and land was laid waste after the closing of the Greysand Gate. 

~4505-4700
Volumes of Tesarius
Three books detailing the exploits of the vagabond king and conqueror Tesarius who united the Volidean people into a sizable fighting force to rally against the return of Greysand beings and the adjunct return of Thelmast. The three beings Roechelle, Corvantus and the Nolithom appear briefly during the climax of this conflict.

~4700-9700
Stolmau Epic
A poem describing the travels of the exiled arrogant king Stolmau and his struggles in the wilds against forces sent by the gods and beasts to test him. The tale of his journey leads him to to the coast where he eventually establishes a small fishing village. This village eventually becomes the Gorbal, the largest seat of Volidean power.

~9725-~
Garden of Forking Paths
Part one of the two missing books of the Volidean legacy. Details the beginning of the first Volidean golden age. It also details the first Volidean encounters with the Lady Roechalle

Talmalon
The first dramatic fall of the Volidean empire created by Tesarius. The fall being brought about by their conflict with the Baldarim and their political struggles. Refuges from the fall retreated into the massive ruins and caverns. The caves served as ideal shelters from the elements and pursuing Baldarim allowing a great many Volidean to escape. These disparate cave settlements from the fall eventually band together to create the Halls of Tylan. The Halls of Tylan stood as a massive underground complex of tunnels dwellings and public spaces that were mined. The large amount of excavation from this resulted in the discovery of what would be called cykric objects of tremendous power.

Theuspromo
The first fallen god to be discovered by the Volidean during the fifth expansion of the Halls of Tylan. This book details the beginnings of the Volidean people's ascension, similar to the Malfaeldon.

Rise of Gorbal
The second great and bountiful Volidean empire is detailed here. Gorbal stands to date the largest and most prosperous Volidean city dated within these texts and represents a high point in Volidean knowledge and power within the region. The origins of Gorbal are traced back to Lostmau and a lover he took during his travels. Their final pace of resting has become the prestigious city of Gorbal.

Construction of The Tower of Gorbal
One of many towers constructed during this time period. The Tower Gorbal however stands as the tallest known structure that reaches nearly as deeply as it reaches upwards making it a colossal structure. This book details the overarching dimensions of its size while heralding praise for it's builders.

Theuspromo
A powerful and mysterious obelisk (a cykrric) like stone bearing a strange mark erupts along the Coastline of the Long Sea. The stone imparts knowledge of another forbidden being and describes key elements of the Trial and Ritual which are used to gain further access to the Theuspromo's knowledge. It is believed that the Nolithom is a cykirric that was corrupted. Volidean explorers come into contact with the Maelfaedon.

Statue in the Desert
During this age the second and final collapse of the Volidean Empire is seeded by the Nolithom who uses the conflict with the Malfaedon, dubbed the War of Telharain, to bring both peoples to a devastated ending

Lost Amid the Grass
The second part of lost books of the Volidean legacy. This describes the journeys of Corvantus through the underbelly of the Lunelands and his discover of the Worldstone.

Ritual of the Trial
Describes a series of rituals used to separate a being into their separate entities of Sten and Ita destroying their original vessel in the process. Through the culmination of the ritual learned from Theuspromo and knowledge obtained from the Nolithom a being's Sten and Ita can be rejoined or permanently separated into a physical object. 

The World on Fire of the Setting Sun
A Volidean telling of the end. The upset of the balance creation marks the beginning of Stentams' reign eternal and Itaphes' passage into eternal night. 

Darker Tones of a Snake (Lost)
A chronicle describing Itaphes' journey through eternity and the night to restore the order of creation, aided by Thalin. The Lady Roechelle makes her first appearance to the refugees along Lostmau’s coast. She urges the Volidean people to head inland away from the coastline towards the massive cliffs at the heart of Corfael.

3125-4505
Eniglamon
The years spent by the Volidean people as refuges from their conflict with Greysand after a large majority of their people and land was laid waste after the closing of the Greysand Gate. The story ends with the Volidean people finding shelter with the immortal Roechelle. Roechelle finally shares some of the darkerr secrets of Corfael with a select few Volidean.

Greysand, the substance know to some as the creeping death or vapid demise is an elemental substance that has a unknown origin despite the fact that it is known to come from beyond what was once known as the Greysand Gate. It is widely believed that beyond the Gate lies the place of origin for the Greysand, but this is only surmised as only one is known to have entered the gate and presumably destroyed it from the other side. What remains of the gate today is surrounded by large pools of Greysand and an ichor substance that upon contact with flesh dissolves it instantly. The Volidean people who have had a longer struggle against this pervasive force have been forced out of their homeland due to the destruction caused by their conflict with the Greysand force and the ultimate destruction of the Gate. The destruction of the Gate produced a shuddering of the ground so strong that it flattened most structures within a large radius. This sundering force also propelled ichor into the sky for miles causing even more destruction.The resulting landscape of war and the Gate's destruction has forced many Volideans to  leave their homeland seeking fortune elsewhere in the world.

