Investigating the True Nature of the Volidean Trials: A Human Perspective
By: Hermaeus Mar
	To humans, the Volidean are legends, their ancient and beleaguered shadows cast by their fantastic architecture across the land. Their legacy is unmistakable and is clearly accentuated in the remnants of technology, techniques, and culture. Nothing, however, is more enigmatic, ambiguous, and overt as the Labyrinth. Referenced by the Volidean name, Tor’Nal, in old texts, the Labyrinth is an accumulation of passageways and challenges meant to test and refine the skills of those who enter. In a way, survival of this massive maze is a rite of passage that guarantees that only those who truly know themselves, those who know their limits, and those who know what they want to become can pass unfettered into the land of the long lost Volidean lords. It is not a metric for righteousness, lest one seeks to become righteous. It is not a metric for skill, unless the individual undertaking the trial is aware of their own limits and ability. As such, it seems that the Labyrinth was designed to be effectively impassable and yields nothing to the people who have lost the yearning to grow in intellect, strength, or ability. Over time, however, the sea has yielded a course to the land of the Volidean, and with the caretakers gone there are none left to oppose the passage of the unworthy into the realm of the old gods. Maybe now, with the passage of time, and the appearance of a failed attempt at selection does the true nature of the trials reveal itself. It is certainly possible that the Volidean possessed much greater forsight than we, the young neighbors to the east, could have ever foreseen. Noticing the signs of their failing civilization and acknowledging the inevitability of human technological advances and the diaspora that would occur as a consequence of such advances, the Volidean may have constructed Tor’Nal to test those who truly wished to be tested. Those chosen few who wished for and sought the challenge would then to enter the realm as was intended by the Volidean. The deserving few would be strong enough to survive the harsh embrace of the Volidean wild and maybe with time, discover the secrets of the lost civilization. The survivors would reclaim this cryptic place and would be able to accommodate the mantle of responsibility held by the ancient Volidean lords. The weak who traveled to the coast would be destroyed, taken by darkness, or would be forced to retreat via the sea. Those who had travsersed the halls of Tor’Nal, however, would undoubtedly overcome the dangers of the bygone world. In a way, we are expected to revive their broken civilization. Tor’Nal is the key to that revival. In essence Tor’Nal, their legacy, is our destiny.
