The War of Telahain

Summary
The War of Telahain or the Fallen Kings War was waged between the Malfaedon people and Volidean people that took place during the recorded Volidean age known as the Statue in the Desert and the Malfaedon age of Ascension. The war culminated in a mutual destruction of the respective seats of civilization and power leaving the two most dominant powers of that age desolated. Over the course of the war large sections of coastal land and woodland were laid to waste. The coastline of the Long Sea was a particular swath that was subject to a high degree of conflict.


Detail
Telahain was a smaller city on the border of the frontier between the Volidean Empire and the Malfaedon Supremacy. Telahain had officially declared its fealty to be the Volidean Empire, but had been harboring the transportation of illegal goods to the Malfaedon Capital. Over the course of the war large sections of land were laid to waste along the stretch of the Long Sea. During the conflict the Malfaedon were initially more successful than the Volidean military juggernaut, due to their coveted knowledge of transportation magic. This knowledge enabled the Malfaedon to lay traps or set up ambushes crippling any advance made by the Volidean armies. The Volidean countered this advantage through the use of an intricate campaign of misinformation and spy networks that destabilized the Malfaedon trap networks leading to a slow retreat north to their stronghold along the long sea. In anticipation of this outcome in the conflict the Malfaedon king now referred to as the Mad King began preparations for a daring feat that had not been attempted before. This feat was the transportation of an entire city to a new location. He planned for the city to be moved to crush the Volidean seat of power, Gorbal. Once the Malfaedon Stronghold had been teleported directly above the Volidean city gravity would do the rest destroying the Volidean leadership and allowing for a direct invasion into the heart of the Volidean Empire. This strategy was put forth to the Mad King by the being known as the Nolithom, whom he encountered during the excavation and fortification of the foundation of the Malfaedon Stronghold. A dark formless being the Nolithom spoke to the king of his power, wealth and ambition and how to increase their scope. From this point on the Malfaedon King’s mind became fixed upon turning their seat of power into a powerful fortress that would channel the power of the Nolithom. 

 
